What's up, engineers? Indie Dev Dan What's up, engineers? Indie Dev Dan What's up, engineers? Indie Dev Dan here. Once again, my MCP server just ate here. Once again, my MCP server just ate here. Once again, my MCP server just ate 10,000 tokens before my agent even 10,000 tokens before my agent even 10,000 tokens before my agent even started working. That's 5% of my agent's started working. That's 5% of my agent's started working. That's 5% of my agent's context window gone, and my Kshi context window gone, and my Kshi context window gone, and my Kshi prediction market MCP server isn't even prediction market MCP server isn't even prediction market MCP server isn't even that large. Stack up two or three more that large. Stack up two or three more that large. Stack up two or three more MCP servers, and I'll be bleeding 20% MCP servers, and I'll be bleeding 20% MCP servers, and I'll be bleeding 20% plus context in no time. This isn't new, plus context in no time. This isn't new, plus context in no time. This isn't new, but what is new are these three proven but what is new are these three proven but what is new are these three proven alternatives to MCP servers. You know alternatives to MCP servers. You know alternatives to MCP servers. You know about skills. We're going to break down about skills. We're going to break down about skills. We're going to break down two additional approaches you can use to two additional approaches you can use to two additional approaches you can use to connect your agents to external tools connect your agents to external tools connect your agents to external tools without torching your contact window without torching your contact window without torching your contact window while maintaining control. These while maintaining control. These while maintaining control. These approaches are being used by some of the approaches are being used by some of the approaches are being used by some of the top leading companies in the agent space top leading companies in the agent space top leading companies in the agent space like Anthropic and by some of the top like Anthropic and by some of the top like Anthropic and by some of the top engineers who use agent coding tools engineers who use agent coding tools engineers who use agent coding tools every single day. We'll break down when every single day. We'll break down when every single day. We'll break down when to use each and their tradeoffs so your to use each and their tradeoffs so your to use each and their tradeoffs so your agent can ship for hours not minutes agent can ship for hours not minutes agent can ship for hours not minutes with focus contacts. Let's go beyond with focus contacts. Let's go beyond with focus contacts. Let's go beyond MCP. So the first version of this is of So the first version of this is of So the first version of this is of course the classic MCP server. The great course the classic MCP server. The great course the classic MCP server. The great part about this is that your MCP server part about this is that your MCP server part about this is that your MCP server manages everything when it comes to the manages everything when it comes to the manages everything when it comes to the connection to your external data source. connection to your external data source. connection to your external data source. So here we have a Haiku model. We don't So here we have a Haiku model. We don't So here we have a Haiku model. We don't need sonnet. That's going to be overkill need sonnet. That's going to be overkill need sonnet. That's going to be overkill for this specific problem. What does for this specific problem. What does for this specific problem. What does this MCP server do? This is a Kshi this MCP server do? This is a Kshi this MCP server do? This is a Kshi prediction markets MCP server. This prediction markets MCP server. This prediction markets MCP server. This gives us a gentic access to the Koshi gives us a gentic access to the Koshi gives us a gentic access to the Koshi prediction markets betting platform. If prediction markets betting platform. If prediction markets betting platform. If we type MCP, you can see we have that KI we type MCP, you can see we have that KI we type MCP, you can see we have that KI server connected. Let's go ahead and server connected. Let's go ahead and server connected. Let's go ahead and search some prediction markets. We'll search some prediction markets. We'll search some prediction markets. We'll type KI search markets OpenAI achieves type KI search markets OpenAI achieves type KI search markets OpenAI achieves AGI. So this is one market that we can AGI. So this is one market that we can AGI. So this is one market that we can access. And you can see our agent diving access. And you can see our agent diving access. And you can see our agent diving into the information with the search into the information with the search into the information with the search markets tool. And we can of course open markets tool. And we can of course open markets tool. And we can of course open up that market right here. And we can up that market right here. And we can up that market right here. And we can see this when will open AAI achieve AGI. see this when will open AAI achieve AGI. see this when will open AAI achieve AGI. You can see here probabilities are very You can see here probabilities are very You can see here probabilities are very very low before 2030 mark. There's a lot very low before 2030 mark. There's a lot very low before 2030 mark. There's a lot of information missing from this UI. We of information missing from this UI. We of information missing from this UI. We can of course have our agent tap into can of course have our agent tap into can of course have our agent tap into that for us. Right? One of the key value that for us. Right? One of the key value that for us. Right? One of the key value propositions of agents is that they can propositions of agents is that they can propositions of agents is that they can manipulate and crud information on your manipulate and crud information on your manipulate and crud information on your behalf faster than ever. So here's a behalf faster than ever. So here's a behalf faster than ever. So here's a great breakdown, right? Get recent great breakdown, right? Get recent great breakdown, right? Get recent trades and get the order book for this trades and get the order book for this trades and get the order book for this market. I want to understand this data market. I want to understand this data market. I want to understand this data at a deeper level. Haiku is doing a at a deeper level. Haiku is doing a at a deeper level. Haiku is doing a great job moving at light speed for us great job moving at light speed for us great job moving at light speed for us breaking down the markets here. Here's breaking down the markets here. Here's breaking down the markets here. Here's the order book, all the shares, total the order book, all the shares, total the order book, all the shares, total volume on each side, recent trades volume on each side, recent trades volume on each side, recent trades placed. Fantastic. These agents are placed. Fantastic. These agents are placed. Fantastic. These agents are really powerful at understanding really powerful at understanding really powerful at understanding information. So, we can say something information. So, we can say something information. So, we can say something like this. Summarize bets and market like this. Summarize bets and market like this. Summarize bets and market sentiment in a concise table. I just sentiment in a concise table. I just sentiment in a concise table. I just want to showcase what this MCP server want to showcase what this MCP server want to showcase what this MCP server can do. This is a readonly couchy can do. This is a readonly couchy can do. This is a readonly couchy marketplace MCP server. Clean sentiment marketplace MCP server. Clean sentiment marketplace MCP server. Clean sentiment analysis. Bearish by 2029. And then we analysis. Bearish by 2029. And then we analysis. Bearish by 2029. And then we still only have a 43% chance. So the still only have a 43% chance. So the still only have a 43% chance. So the market is telling us with their dollars market is telling us with their dollars market is telling us with their dollars that by 2029 we expect only a 43% chance that by 2029 we expect only a 43% chance that by 2029 we expect only a 43% chance that OpenAI achieves whatever AGI is. that OpenAI achieves whatever AGI is. that OpenAI achieves whatever AGI is. The devil's always in the details here, The devil's always in the details here, The devil's always in the details here, right? OpenAI has to announce that right? OpenAI has to announce that right? OpenAI has to announce that they've achieved AGI. Who knows what AGI they've achieved AGI. Who knows what AGI they've achieved AGI. Who knows what AGI is? No one knows anymore. But this is is? No one knows anymore. But this is is? No one knows anymore. But this is the power of this MCP server, right? So the power of this MCP server, right? So the power of this MCP server, right? So we can understand the markets at light we can understand the markets at light we can understand the markets at light speed. And here we're doing it with a speed. And here we're doing it with a speed. And here we're doing it with a classic MCP server. you know exactly how classic MCP server. you know exactly how classic MCP server. you know exactly how this works. It's a great tool. It's a this works. It's a great tool. It's a this works. It's a great tool. It's a great resource for connecting your agent great resource for connecting your agent great resource for connecting your agent to services. But the big problem here to services. But the big problem here to services. But the big problem here is, of course, slashcontext right away. is, of course, slashcontext right away. is, of course, slashcontext right away. 10k tokens torched for my small, you 10k tokens torched for my small, you 10k tokens torched for my small, you know, relatively well-built MCP server. know, relatively well-built MCP server. know, relatively well-built MCP server. So, let's move beyond MCP server with So, let's move beyond MCP server with So, let's move beyond MCP server with three new approaches where we can get three new approaches where we can get three new approaches where we can get some of the value without torching our some of the value without torching our some of the value without torching our agents most important resource. And agents most important resource. And agents most important resource. And these approaches trade off complexity these approaches trade off complexity these approaches trade off complexity for control. The theme though is the for control. The theme though is the for control. The theme though is the same. Use raw code as tools. For our next approach, we're using the For our next approach, we're using the For our next approach, we're using the CLI. So here we prompt our agent and we CLI. So here we prompt our agent and we CLI. So here we prompt our agent and we give our agent a specific prompt that give our agent a specific prompt that give our agent a specific prompt that teaches them how to use a CLI, a set of teaches them how to use a CLI, a set of teaches them how to use a CLI, a set of functions that they can then call to functions that they can then call to functions that they can then call to access the thing we're trying to access the thing we're trying to access the thing we're trying to interact with. So how does a CLI first interact with. So how does a CLI first interact with. So how does a CLI first approach work? Let's open up a brand new approach work? Let's open up a brand new approach work? Let's open up a brand new agent. And you can see here I've dropped agent. And you can see here I've dropped agent. And you can see here I've dropped the MCP server. So now we're just the MCP server. So now we're just the MCP server. So now we're just running our cheap fast IQ model. If we running our cheap fast IQ model. If we running our cheap fast IQ model. If we drop MCP, there's nothing there. How drop MCP, there's nothing there. How drop MCP, there's nothing there. How does this work? If we don't have an MCP does this work? If we don't have an MCP does this work? If we don't have an MCP server, how can we enable and teach our server, how can we enable and teach our server, how can we enable and teach our agents how to use a specific set of agents how to use a specific set of agents how to use a specific set of tools? We can do this in many ways, but tools? We can do this in many ways, but tools? We can do this in many ways, but it all boils down to just context model it all boils down to just context model it all boils down to just context model prompt and tools. Prime Ky CLI tools, prompt and tools. Prime Ky CLI tools, prompt and tools. Prime Ky CLI tools, right? Our fast agent is just going to right? Our fast agent is just going to right? Our fast agent is just going to read these two files, a readme and a read these two files, a readme and a read these two files, a readme and a CLI. Now, our agent has summarized how CLI. Now, our agent has summarized how CLI. Now, our agent has summarized how to use this tool exactly. It understands to use this tool exactly. It understands to use this tool exactly. It understands the CLI. It understands its settings. the CLI. It understands its settings. the CLI. It understands its settings. It's broken down the common workflows. It's broken down the common workflows. It's broken down the common workflows. And if we scroll up, you can see it And if we scroll up, you can see it And if we scroll up, you can see it understands exactly what's going on. So, understands exactly what's going on. So, understands exactly what's going on. So, what exactly does this file look like? what exactly does this file look like? what exactly does this file look like? Inside of the Beyond MCP server codebase Inside of the Beyond MCP server codebase Inside of the Beyond MCP server codebase where we're breaking down each approach. where we're breaking down each approach. where we're breaking down each approach. If we look for this prime couch CLI If we look for this prime couch CLI If we look for this prime couch CLI tools, you can see a concise 25line tools, you can see a concise 25line tools, you can see a concise 25line prompt that tells our agent how to use prompt that tells our agent how to use prompt that tells our agent how to use these tools. You can see the key line these tools. You can see the key line these tools. You can see the key line here is in our workflow step read only here is in our workflow step read only here is in our workflow step read only these two. The readme of our second app these two. The readme of our second app these two. The readme of our second app and the CLI we're on the report section and the CLI we're on the report section and the CLI we're on the report section as you work with the user call the right as you work with the user call the right as you work with the user call the right tools to get the data you need. So let's tools to get the data you need. So let's tools to get the data you need. So let's look at another market. We'll search look at another market. We'll search look at another market. We'll search trillionaire and I'll prefix this with trillionaire and I'll prefix this with trillionaire and I'll prefix this with market search. So check this out. market search. So check this out. market search. So check this out. Instead of running an MCP tool, our Instead of running an MCP tool, our Instead of running an MCP tool, our agent is running a CLI command. Let's agent is running a CLI command. Let's agent is running a CLI command. Let's scroll up so we can see that we have scroll up so we can see that we have scroll up so we can see that we have taught our agent how to use the CLI taught our agent how to use the CLI taught our agent how to use the CLI instead of an MCP server. Now, there's a instead of an MCP server. Now, there's a instead of an MCP server. Now, there's a little more upfront cost here, right? We little more upfront cost here, right? We little more upfront cost here, right? We are prompt engineering how to use this are prompt engineering how to use this are prompt engineering how to use this MCP server, but as a reward, we get to MCP server, but as a reward, we get to MCP server, but as a reward, we get to fully control everything the agent can fully control everything the agent can fully control everything the agent can and cannot do. MCP just says, "Here's a and cannot do. MCP just says, "Here's a and cannot do. MCP just says, "Here's a bunch of tools. Here's all the bunch of tools. Here's all the bunch of tools. Here's all the descriptions. Here's all the context descriptions. Here's all the context descriptions. Here's all the context you're going to need to consume every you're going to need to consume every you're going to need to consume every time you boot the agent up." Here we're time you boot the agent up." Here we're time you boot the agent up." Here we're in full control over everything. Here's in full control over everything. Here's in full control over everything. Here's the readme. Here's the CLI. This is what the readme. Here's the CLI. This is what the readme. Here's the CLI. This is what you should do. And then we said do not you should do. And then we said do not you should do. And then we said do not read any other Python files. All right. read any other Python files. All right. read any other Python files. All right. So this is important. We're saying don't So this is important. We're saying don't So this is important. We're saying don't consume any additional context. This is consume any additional context. This is consume any additional context. This is all you need. We can do the exact same all you need. We can do the exact same all you need. We can do the exact same work, right? Market search trillionaire. work, right? Market search trillionaire. work, right? Market search trillionaire. We're pulling up some of the We're pulling up some of the We're pulling up some of the trillionaire couch marketplaces, right? trillionaire couch marketplaces, right? trillionaire couch marketplaces, right? Who's going to be the first Who's going to be the first Who's going to be the first trillionaire? And then we have the Elon trillionaire? And then we have the Elon trillionaire? And then we have the Elon Musk trillionaire market. We're betting Musk trillionaire market. We're betting Musk trillionaire market. We're betting on when he'll be a trillionaire. Great on when he'll be a trillionaire. Great on when he'll be a trillionaire. Great summary here. Highest conviction. Musk summary here. Highest conviction. Musk summary here. Highest conviction. Musk by 2030. We have the most liquid, most by 2030. We have the most liquid, most by 2030. We have the most liquid, most traded. Of course, we can pull up these traded. Of course, we can pull up these traded. Of course, we can pull up these markets here and see them at a glance. markets here and see them at a glance. markets here and see them at a glance. Betting on on Elon is pretty high here. Betting on on Elon is pretty high here. Betting on on Elon is pretty high here. We have this market and then we also We have this market and then we also We have this market and then we also have who else, you know, will be the have who else, you know, will be the have who else, you know, will be the first trillionaire. You can see a lot of first trillionaire. You can see a lot of first trillionaire. You can see a lot of sentiment around Elon, but not uh so sentiment around Elon, but not uh so sentiment around Elon, but not uh so much anyone else, right? So, very much anyone else, right? So, very much anyone else, right? So, very interesting stuff there. We can push interesting stuff there. We can push interesting stuff there. We can push this further. Summarize bets and market this further. Summarize bets and market this further. Summarize bets and market sentiment. This is something that I keep sentiment. This is something that I keep sentiment. This is something that I keep prompting. I need to turn this into a prompting. I need to turn this into a prompting. I need to turn this into a reasonable prompt. sentiment for Elon reasonable prompt. sentiment for Elon reasonable prompt. sentiment for Elon and first trillionaire markets. So our and first trillionaire markets. So our and first trillionaire markets. So our agent is going to do the, you know, agent is going to do the, you know, agent is going to do the, you know, exactly what you would expect to kind of exactly what you would expect to kind of exactly what you would expect to kind of pull this information together and then pull this information together and then pull this information together and then we can set up one more prompt. Quick we can set up one more prompt. Quick we can set up one more prompt. Quick simple summary. These markets are giving simple summary. These markets are giving simple summary. These markets are giving us information. This is a really us information. This is a really us information. This is a really interesting thing about these betting interesting thing about these betting interesting thing about these betting markets, these emerging poly market cali markets, these emerging poly market cali markets, these emerging poly market cali you can use this in two ways, right? As you can use this in two ways, right? As you can use this in two ways, right? As Vitalic said, the creator of Ethereum, Vitalic said, the creator of Ethereum, Vitalic said, the creator of Ethereum, you know, there's two ways to use these you know, there's two ways to use these you know, there's two ways to use these betting markets. It's a betting site for betting markets. It's a betting site for betting markets. It's a betting site for some people and you know for those some people and you know for those some people and you know for those looking to make high return on looking to make high return on looking to make high return on investment decisions and figure out investment decisions and figure out investment decisions and figure out where to bet their time and understand where to bet their time and understand where to bet their time and understand events happening in the world. This is events happening in the world. This is events happening in the world. This is also a news site, right? It's a place of also a news site, right? It's a place of also a news site, right? It's a place of finding valuable information and it finding valuable information and it finding valuable information and it helps us understand the future before it helps us understand the future before it helps us understand the future before it occurs because people are placing their occurs because people are placing their occurs because people are placing their bets, right? Vitalic calls this info bets, right? Vitalic calls this info bets, right? Vitalic calls this info finance. You can use these betting finance. You can use these betting finance. You can use these betting platforms to understand incentives platforms to understand incentives platforms to understand incentives before things happen. So very before things happen. So very before things happen. So very interesting way to think about betting interesting way to think about betting interesting way to think about betting markets and it's a great way to get an markets and it's a great way to get an markets and it's a great way to get an edge with agents. These agents can edge with agents. These agents can edge with agents. These agents can understand this information faster and understand this information faster and understand this information faster and better and you can get multiple better and you can get multiple better and you can get multiple perspectives on this data. So just by perspectives on this data. So just by perspectives on this data. So just by looking at these betting markets, we can looking at these betting markets, we can looking at these betting markets, we can see here that by 2030 the market becomes see here that by 2030 the market becomes see here that by 2030 the market becomes bullish that Elon is going to be a bullish that Elon is going to be a bullish that Elon is going to be a trillionaire. Some of these other trillionaire. Some of these other trillionaire. Some of these other prediction markets are actually really prediction markets are actually really prediction markets are actually really interesting, right? Like when will interesting, right? Like when will interesting, right? Like when will OpenAI achieves AGI? This actually tells OpenAI achieves AGI? This actually tells OpenAI achieves AGI? This actually tells you the sentiment of the market around you the sentiment of the market around you the sentiment of the market around OpenAI achieving and pushing forward and OpenAI achieving and pushing forward and OpenAI achieving and pushing forward and becoming a great valuable company. becoming a great valuable company. becoming a great valuable company. That's the information underneath the That's the information underneath the That's the information underneath the data, but only a 43% chance by 2030. data, but only a 43% chance by 2030. data, but only a 43% chance by 2030. Very interesting. Cool stuff here, Very interesting. Cool stuff here, Very interesting. Cool stuff here, right? And you can continue to prompt right? And you can continue to prompt right? And you can continue to prompt your agent however you want. Web search your agent however you want. Web search your agent however you want. Web search 2025, the net worth, uh, Jensen, Elon, 2025, the net worth, uh, Jensen, Elon, 2025, the net worth, uh, Jensen, Elon, and Sam, what market cap would their and Sam, what market cap would their and Sam, what market cap would their companies need to make them companies need to make them companies need to make them trillionaire? This is all thanks to trillionaire? This is all thanks to trillionaire? This is all thanks to agents helping us move super super fast agents helping us move super super fast agents helping us move super super fast and understand data. But focusing back and understand data. But focusing back and understand data. But focusing back in on the CLI. If we open up the code in on the CLI. If we open up the code in on the CLI. If we open up the code here while our agent works. So we have here while our agent works. So we have here while our agent works. So we have the CLI and here's the important part. the CLI and here's the important part. the CLI and here's the important part. Right? In the CLI, we just showcase all Right? In the CLI, we just showcase all Right? In the CLI, we just showcase all of the functions, right? And notice how of the functions, right? And notice how of the functions, right? And notice how via the CLI syntax, click, typer, via the CLI syntax, click, typer, via the CLI syntax, click, typer, whatever you want to use, our agent can whatever you want to use, our agent can whatever you want to use, our agent can easily see how this works. As long as easily see how this works. As long as easily see how this works. As long as you're not using a super new tool that you're not using a super new tool that you're not using a super new tool that the agent has no idea about, it's pretty the agent has no idea about, it's pretty the agent has no idea about, it's pretty straightforward. Right? Here's an straightforward. Right? Here's an straightforward. Right? Here's an option. It's called D-limit default. option. It's called D-limit default. option. It's called D-limit default. Here's how you can use it. We Here's how you can use it. We Here's how you can use it. We effectively have all the capabilities of effectively have all the capabilities of effectively have all the capabilities of MCP server with raw code. And this is MCP server with raw code. And this is MCP server with raw code. And this is something that Mario mentions, pretty something that Mario mentions, pretty something that Mario mentions, pretty top tier engineer covering some hot top tier engineer covering some hot top tier engineer covering some hot topics. He argues, what if you don't topics. He argues, what if you don't topics. He argues, what if you don't need MCP at all? And the way he does it need MCP at all? And the way he does it need MCP at all? And the way he does it is he just sets up a prompt as we're is he just sets up a prompt as we're is he just sets up a prompt as we're doing here through a readme file and he doing here through a readme file and he doing here through a readme file and he basically just tells the agent, you basically just tells the agent, you basically just tells the agent, you know, look at this. Here are all the know, look at this. Here are all the know, look at this. Here are all the tools you can use. They're all in a tools you can use. They're all in a tools you can use. They're all in a specific file. We're going to break down specific file. We're going to break down specific file. We're going to break down this approach in just a second. And it's this approach in just a second. And it's this approach in just a second. And it's very similar to the CLI, but you get very similar to the CLI, but you get very similar to the CLI, but you get improved context management. The improved context management. The improved context management. The benefits here are are really obvious benefits here are are really obvious benefits here are are really obvious here, right? You can pull in the readme here, right? You can pull in the readme here, right? You can pull in the readme whenever you need. So for this agent, we whenever you need. So for this agent, we whenever you need. So for this agent, we ran our prime calcium CLI tools. We only ran our prime calcium CLI tools. We only ran our prime calcium CLI tools. We only activate this. We only set our agent up activate this. We only set our agent up activate this. We only set our agent up when we need it. Okay? When we need the when we need it. Okay? When we need the when we need it. Okay? When we need the specific tool set. So this is really specific tool set. So this is really specific tool set. So this is really powerful. It's a lot more dynamic than powerful. It's a lot more dynamic than powerful. It's a lot more dynamic than MCP servers. Not a ton to go over here. MCP servers. Not a ton to go over here. MCP servers. Not a ton to go over here. I think the most interesting thing here I think the most interesting thing here I think the most interesting thing here though is that you know Sam Alman though is that you know Sam Alman though is that you know Sam Alman currently reported worth2 billion while currently reported worth2 billion while currently reported worth2 billion while Elon at 500 billion already and Jensen Elon at 500 billion already and Jensen Elon at 500 billion already and Jensen he's about 175 billion and then we get a he's about 175 billion and then we get a he's about 175 billion and then we get a breakdown of their their companies and breakdown of their their companies and breakdown of their their companies and how much more revenue they would need how much more revenue they would need how much more revenue they would need right to really hit these marks. So, you right to really hit these marks. So, you right to really hit these marks. So, you know, Jensen would need 450% increase, know, Jensen would need 450% increase, know, Jensen would need 450% increase, not that much, but Elon only 100% away not that much, but Elon only 100% away not that much, but Elon only 100% away between all of his assets. And Sam between all of his assets. And Sam between all of his assets. And Sam actually a lot further away, not as as actually a lot further away, not as as actually a lot further away, not as as wealthy as a lot of people think. wealthy as a lot of people think. wealthy as a lot of people think. Important thing to mention here, I Important thing to mention here, I Important thing to mention here, I missed this at the start. If we clear missed this at the start. If we clear missed this at the start. If we clear this agent, restart it, and we run this this agent, restart it, and we run this this agent, restart it, and we run this prime command, only reading these two prime command, only reading these two prime command, only reading these two files. Okay. Uh, we're going to conserve files. Okay. Uh, we're going to conserve files. Okay. Uh, we're going to conserve our context window. If we hit /context, our context window. If we hit /context, our context window. If we hit /context, you'll see here our tokens are down from you'll see here our tokens are down from you'll see here our tokens are down from that 10% down to just, you know, 5.6%. that 10% down to just, you know, 5.6%. that 10% down to just, you know, 5.6%. All right, so we've saved roughly 4% All right, so we've saved roughly 4% All right, so we've saved roughly 4% context window with our CLI approach. context window with our CLI approach. context window with our CLI approach. Very powerful, but we can push this Very powerful, but we can push this Very powerful, but we can push this further. Let me show you the scriptbased further. Let me show you the scriptbased further. Let me show you the scriptbased approach. So scripts look a lot like skills. In So scripts look a lot like skills. In So scripts look a lot like skills. In particular here, we have that same setup particular here, we have that same setup particular here, we have that same setup where you prompt your agent with a where you prompt your agent with a where you prompt your agent with a specific prompt, right? A prime prompt. specific prompt, right? A prime prompt. specific prompt, right? A prime prompt. You're preparing your agent for You're preparing your agent for You're preparing your agent for something just like you would set something just like you would set something just like you would set yourself up for a great day in the yourself up for a great day in the yourself up for a great day in the morning. So, you're priming about morning. So, you're priming about morning. So, you're priming about specific files. But the trick here is is specific files. But the trick here is is specific files. But the trick here is is that you want to use progressive that you want to use progressive that you want to use progressive disclosure. This is something that disclosure. This is something that disclosure. This is something that Enthropic mentions inside of their blog Enthropic mentions inside of their blog Enthropic mentions inside of their blog when they're talking about this using when they're talking about this using when they're talking about this using direct tool calls. Scale better by direct tool calls. Scale better by direct tool calls. Scale better by writing code to tool calls instead. Now, writing code to tool calls instead. Now, writing code to tool calls instead. Now, interestingly here, Enthropic actually interestingly here, Enthropic actually interestingly here, Enthropic actually ends up calling the MCP server under the ends up calling the MCP server under the ends up calling the MCP server under the hood. I think Mario and I would argue hood. I think Mario and I would argue hood. I think Mario and I would argue that you don't actually need to go that that you don't actually need to go that that you don't actually need to go that far. You can just hand them the script far. You can just hand them the script far. You can just hand them the script or the tools and have them run that or the tools and have them run that or the tools and have them run that directly. The only con there is of directly. The only con there is of directly. The only con there is of course you have to build out that tool course you have to build out that tool course you have to build out that tool and the interaction versus rely on the and the interaction versus rely on the and the interaction versus rely on the existing MCP server that exists. So, existing MCP server that exists. So, existing MCP server that exists. So, what is this scripts approach? So, if we what is this scripts approach? So, if we what is this scripts approach? So, if we boot up our agent here and we run clear boot up our agent here and we run clear boot up our agent here and we run clear and let's just go ahead and start from and let's just go ahead and start from and let's just go ahead and start from scratch so it's super clear. So we have scratch so it's super clear. So we have scratch so it's super clear. So we have the ha coup model here and then we're the ha coup model here and then we're the ha coup model here and then we're going to run slash file system scripts. going to run slash file system scripts. going to run slash file system scripts. So again we're priming our agent with a So again we're priming our agent with a So again we're priming our agent with a specific set of information. Okay. So specific set of information. Okay. So specific set of information. Okay. So same deal and we can of course look at same deal and we can of course look at same deal and we can of course look at this prompt. There you go. Okay. So it's this prompt. There you go. Okay. So it's this prompt. There you go. Okay. So it's already finished. This model is so fast. already finished. This model is so fast. already finished. This model is so fast. This time we only read a read me. And This time we only read a read me. And This time we only read a read me. And check this out. Our agent understands check this out. Our agent understands check this out. Our agent understands when to use each script. Okay. So this when to use each script. Okay. So this when to use each script. Okay. So this isn't preloaded in the context. It just isn't preloaded in the context. It just isn't preloaded in the context. It just understands at a high level when to use understands at a high level when to use understands at a high level when to use each script. We effectively have a each script. We effectively have a each script. We effectively have a condition mapped to files. This is a condition mapped to files. This is a condition mapped to files. This is a powerful agentic data structure that you powerful agentic data structure that you powerful agentic data structure that you can use to activate or ignore context. can use to activate or ignore context. can use to activate or ignore context. Okay, so you know, check this out. This Okay, so you know, check this out. This Okay, so you know, check this out. This is crazy. /context less than 1% just is crazy. /context less than 1% just is crazy. /context less than 1% just under 2K context. Here's the key part. I under 2K context. Here's the key part. I under 2K context. Here's the key part. I will not read scripts themselves will not read scripts themselves will not read scripts themselves unless-help doesn't provide information unless-help doesn't provide information unless-help doesn't provide information needed. We are prompt engineering this needed. We are prompt engineering this needed. We are prompt engineering this outcome. A lot of engineers are super outcome. A lot of engineers are super outcome. A lot of engineers are super obsessed with context engineering. obsessed with context engineering. obsessed with context engineering. Everyone's jumping on the context train. Everyone's jumping on the context train. Everyone's jumping on the context train. Even before context comes prompt Even before context comes prompt Even before context comes prompt engineering. This is still a critical engineering. This is still a critical engineering. This is still a critical skill. In fact, it is the critical skill skill. In fact, it is the critical skill skill. In fact, it is the critical skill for engineers in 2025 and beyond. The for engineers in 2025 and beyond. The for engineers in 2025 and beyond. The prompt shows up before the context gets prompt shows up before the context gets prompt shows up before the context gets in your context window. We have just in your context window. We have just in your context window. We have just prompt engineered out 10,000 tokens that prompt engineered out 10,000 tokens that prompt engineered out 10,000 tokens that don't show up via a default MCP server don't show up via a default MCP server don't show up via a default MCP server or even our CLI script. Right? Our CLI or even our CLI script. Right? Our CLI or even our CLI script. Right? Our CLI script got it down by say 50 60%. But script got it down by say 50 60%. But script got it down by say 50 60%. But our scriptbased approach is taking it our scriptbased approach is taking it our scriptbased approach is taking it all the way down to let's say 10% of the all the way down to let's say 10% of the all the way down to let's say 10% of the original. All right. So, how does this original. All right. So, how does this original. All right. So, how does this work? We have again another great prompt work? We have again another great prompt work? We have again another great prompt with a typical structure that we use on with a typical structure that we use on with a typical structure that we use on the channel all the time. Make sure you the channel all the time. Make sure you the channel all the time. Make sure you subscribe so you don't miss out. We're subscribe so you don't miss out. We're subscribe so you don't miss out. We're breaking our prompt down piece by piece. breaking our prompt down piece by piece. breaking our prompt down piece by piece. Every section has a specific purpose. Every section has a specific purpose. Every section has a specific purpose. And there are some other sections here And there are some other sections here And there are some other sections here we just didn't need, so we didn't add we just didn't need, so we didn't add we just didn't need, so we didn't add them. Here's the important part. Do not them. Here's the important part. Do not them. Here's the important part. Do not read the scripts themselves. Then we read the scripts themselves. Then we read the scripts themselves. Then we have d-help where we explain that as you have d-help where we explain that as you have d-help where we explain that as you work through each script you use d-help work through each script you use d-help work through each script you use d-help to understand how to use it. Now here's to understand how to use it. Now here's to understand how to use it. Now here's a cool part right if we look in this a cool part right if we look in this a cool part right if we look in this directory. So this is our apps 3 file directory. So this is our apps 3 file directory. So this is our apps 3 file system. Every single script is of course system. Every single script is of course system. Every single script is of course a self-contained script. If we open up a self-contained script. If we open up a self-contained script. If we open up the read me you can see exactly why we the read me you can see exactly why we the read me you can see exactly why we had our agent read this file. These are had our agent read this file. These are had our agent read this file. These are file system scripts, right? Isolated file system scripts, right? Isolated file system scripts, right? Isolated single file scripts that you can use uh single file scripts that you can use uh single file scripts that you can use uh on their own or together, right? And we on their own or together, right? And we on their own or together, right? And we have conditions on each when to use each have conditions on each when to use each have conditions on each when to use each file. And that's it, right? A 58 line file. And that's it, right? A 58 line file. And that's it, right? A 58 line readme file. Um we could have put this readme file. Um we could have put this readme file. Um we could have put this in the prompt, but having it here in the in the prompt, but having it here in the in the prompt, but having it here in the readme is fine as well. And now we can readme is fine as well. And now we can readme is fine as well. And now we can just prompt as usual. All right, so just prompt as usual. All right, so just prompt as usual. All right, so business as usual. Let's go ahead and business as usual. Let's go ahead and business as usual. Let's go ahead and have our agent actually do some work for have our agent actually do some work for have our agent actually do some work for us. Let's look at another prediction us. Let's look at another prediction us. Let's look at another prediction market on Kelsey. Let's run something market on Kelsey. Let's run something market on Kelsey. Let's run something like this. Koshi market search. I want like this. Koshi market search. I want like this. Koshi market search. I want to understand the government shutdown. to understand the government shutdown. to understand the government shutdown. Okay. What's going on around the Okay. What's going on around the Okay. What's going on around the government shutdown? How long will this government shutdown? How long will this government shutdown? How long will this last? So check this out, right? UV run last? So check this out, right? UV run last? So check this out, right? UV run app 3 file system scripts search-json. app 3 file system scripts search-json. app 3 file system scripts search-json. There's the search. There's the result. There's the search. There's the result. There's the search. There's the result. This is effectively the same thing as This is effectively the same thing as This is effectively the same thing as the MCP server as the CLI server. And the MCP server as the CLI server. And the MCP server as the CLI server. And that's the big kicker here, right? All that's the big kicker here, right? All that's the big kicker here, right? All these approaches help you solve the same these approaches help you solve the same these approaches help you solve the same problem. Give your agent access to problem. Give your agent access to problem. Give your agent access to tools. The question is how you do that tools. The question is how you do that tools. The question is how you do that and what does it cost? In the and what does it cost? In the and what does it cost? In the scriptbased approach, you know, we have scriptbased approach, you know, we have scriptbased approach, you know, we have dedicated single file scripts, right? If dedicated single file scripts, right? If dedicated single file scripts, right? If we open up our search, you can see it's we open up our search, you can see it's we open up our search, you can see it's self-contained. We're using Astral UV. self-contained. We're using Astral UV. self-contained. We're using Astral UV. Shout out Astral. They are the best Shout out Astral. They are the best Shout out Astral. They are the best Python dependency manager. The industry Python dependency manager. The industry Python dependency manager. The industry is really picking up on this finally. is really picking up on this finally. is really picking up on this finally. We've been using it for over a year now We've been using it for over a year now We've been using it for over a year now because we can do cracked stuff like because we can do cracked stuff like because we can do cracked stuff like this. Python single file scripts all this. Python single file scripts all this. Python single file scripts all over the place with dependencies over the place with dependencies over the place with dependencies declared at the top, right? But each one declared at the top, right? But each one declared at the top, right? But each one of these scripts is their own world of of these scripts is their own world of of these scripts is their own world of code. Of course, the trade-off here is code. Of course, the trade-off here is code. Of course, the trade-off here is we have code duplication all over the we have code duplication all over the we have code duplication all over the place. But that's fine. We're willing to place. But that's fine. We're willing to place. But that's fine. We're willing to pay that price because it makes our pay that price because it makes our pay that price because it makes our agents more effective. When you have agents more effective. When you have agents more effective. When you have less garbage context, your agent can less garbage context, your agent can less garbage context, your agent can perform better. So, here's this market. perform better. So, here's this market. perform better. So, here's this market. Basically, we're betting on how long Basically, we're betting on how long Basically, we're betting on how long will the government shutdown last. will the government shutdown last. will the government shutdown last. There's no value. There's no information There's no value. There's no information There's no value. There's no information in a bet that's 99% certain, really even in a bet that's 99% certain, really even in a bet that's 99% certain, really even 90% certain. But there is more 90% certain. But there is more 90% certain. But there is more information here in this, you know, 66 information here in this, you know, 66 information here in this, you know, 66 63% bet. And we can pull up the full bet 63% bet. And we can pull up the full bet 63% bet. And we can pull up the full bet here. How long will this last? You can here. How long will this last? You can here. How long will this last? You can see the interesting places are this 45 see the interesting places are this 45 see the interesting places are this 45 to 52 mark. Right? This is where the to 52 mark. Right? This is where the to 52 mark. Right? This is where the interesting bets are actually happening. interesting bets are actually happening. interesting bets are actually happening. This is where we can actually get real This is where we can actually get real This is where we can actually get real information. If we want to predict how information. If we want to predict how information. If we want to predict how long this will actually last, all right, long this will actually last, all right, long this will actually last, all right, we can say something like summarize we can say something like summarize we can say something like summarize bets. When can we expect the government bets. When can we expect the government bets. When can we expect the government shutdown to end? So based on the bets, shutdown to end? So based on the bets, shutdown to end? So based on the bets, again, based on the information again, based on the information again, based on the information available through people placing real available through people placing real available through people placing real bets on these markets, we can kind of bets on these markets, we can kind of bets on these markets, we can kind of understand the future in a more uh understand the future in a more uh understand the future in a more uh deeper way. We're pretty much guaranteed deeper way. We're pretty much guaranteed deeper way. We're pretty much guaranteed that it'll last longer than 39 days. And that it'll last longer than 39 days. And that it'll last longer than 39 days. And this is since October 1st, by the way. this is since October 1st, by the way. this is since October 1st, by the way. Um so longer than 39 days, longer than Um so longer than 39 days, longer than Um so longer than 39 days, longer than 40, but then the probability really 40, but then the probability really 40, but then the probability really drops off. Based on this information, we drops off. Based on this information, we drops off. Based on this information, we can see that, you know, roughly 40 to 50 can see that, you know, roughly 40 to 50 can see that, you know, roughly 40 to 50 days is the consensus. expected end date days is the consensus. expected end date days is the consensus. expected end date based on the probabilities 18th to 20th based on the probabilities 18th to 20th based on the probabilities 18th to 20th based on again these market bets. So based on again these market bets. So based on again these market bets. So really interesting way to actually use really interesting way to actually use really interesting way to actually use these markets is information about a these markets is information about a these markets is information about a future state in the world. This is the future state in the world. This is the future state in the world. This is the huge advantage of using these scripts huge advantage of using these scripts huge advantage of using these scripts and this is something that Mario points and this is something that Mario points and this is something that Mario points out here. I'll of course add all these out here. I'll of course add all these out here. I'll of course add all these links into the description. Benchmarks links into the description. Benchmarks links into the description. Benchmarks have shown that there's no degradation have shown that there's no degradation have shown that there's no degradation in quality by going right for scripts, in quality by going right for scripts, in quality by going right for scripts, going right for CLI, right? basically going right for CLI, right? basically going right for CLI, right? basically handing your agent code versus giving handing your agent code versus giving handing your agent code versus giving them an MCP server. Now, Anthropic has a them an MCP server. Now, Anthropic has a them an MCP server. Now, Anthropic has a slightly interesting approach to this. slightly interesting approach to this. slightly interesting approach to this. They have this uh call MCP tool approach They have this uh call MCP tool approach They have this uh call MCP tool approach where they basically recommend that you where they basically recommend that you where they basically recommend that you wrap and expose specific functionality wrap and expose specific functionality wrap and expose specific functionality in a CLI or individual scripts, right? in a CLI or individual scripts, right? in a CLI or individual scripts, right? Get document and then you call the MCP Get document and then you call the MCP Get document and then you call the MCP server underneath. I think you can just server underneath. I think you can just server underneath. I think you can just cut the MCP server out completely if cut the MCP server out completely if cut the MCP server out completely if you're going to script it out yourself. you're going to script it out yourself. you're going to script it out yourself. They mention here that you know the big They mention here that you know the big They mention here that you know the big benefit is progressive disclosure. Very benefit is progressive disclosure. Very benefit is progressive disclosure. Very interestingly here you can see we're interestingly here you can see we're interestingly here you can see we're getting that progressive disclosure by getting that progressive disclosure by getting that progressive disclosure by ourselves by prompt engineering and it's ourselves by prompt engineering and it's ourselves by prompt engineering and it's not a complex prompt, right? It really not a complex prompt, right? It really not a complex prompt, right? It really is not a complex prompt. We're saying is not a complex prompt. We're saying is not a complex prompt. We're saying when to use every single file and then when to use every single file and then when to use every single file and then we're saying don't read and here's a we're saying don't read and here's a we're saying don't read and here's a couple tools you can use, a couple ways couple tools you can use, a couple ways couple tools you can use, a couple ways you can understand every single script you can understand every single script you can understand every single script without blowing up your context window. without blowing up your context window. without blowing up your context window. I like to call this incremental context. I like to call this incremental context. I like to call this incremental context. We'll talk about the trails of all this We'll talk about the trails of all this We'll talk about the trails of all this in a second. There's one more way to in a second. There's one more way to in a second. There's one more way to manage your context. It is of course manage your context. It is of course manage your context. It is of course with skills. Skills look like this. They look very Skills look like this. They look very Skills look like this. They look very similar to actually scripting things similar to actually scripting things similar to actually scripting things out. The big key difference between out. The big key difference between out. The big key difference between skills and scripts is how you invoke skills and scripts is how you invoke skills and scripts is how you invoke them. So with scripts, we have to have a them. So with scripts, we have to have a them. So with scripts, we have to have a priming prompt to kind of fire things priming prompt to kind of fire things priming prompt to kind of fire things off. And with the skill, the prime off. And with the skill, the prime off. And with the skill, the prime prompt is the skill.md file, right? So, prompt is the skill.md file, right? So, prompt is the skill.md file, right? So, you still have to set up the prompt that you still have to set up the prompt that you still have to set up the prompt that kicks things off and that lets your kicks things off and that lets your kicks things off and that lets your agent understand the tools available, agent understand the tools available, agent understand the tools available, but how you do it is just a little bit but how you do it is just a little bit but how you do it is just a little bit different, right? And that's a key thing different, right? And that's a key thing different, right? And that's a key thing to mention here, right? I talk about to mention here, right? I talk about to mention here, right? I talk about this a lot on the channel. Don't give this a lot on the channel. Don't give this a lot on the channel. Don't give away your understanding of how to write away your understanding of how to write away your understanding of how to write great prompts because at the end of the great prompts because at the end of the great prompts because at the end of the day, everything is just the core for day, everything is just the core for day, everything is just the core for context, model, prompt, and tools, context, model, prompt, and tools, context, model, prompt, and tools, right? every feature just builds on top right? every feature just builds on top right? every feature just builds on top of your agents context model prompt and of your agents context model prompt and of your agents context model prompt and tools. All right, so the interesting tools. All right, so the interesting tools. All right, so the interesting thing is where and how the tools are thing is where and how the tools are thing is where and how the tools are discovered, right? And that's what we're discovered, right? And that's what we're discovered, right? And that's what we're really focused on here. So if we close really focused on here. So if we close really focused on here. So if we close all of our approaches and if we open up all of our approaches and if we open up all of our approaches and if we open up apps skill, you can see all we have here apps skill, you can see all we have here apps skill, you can see all we have here is acloud file. And so of course we can is acloud file. And so of course we can is acloud file. And so of course we can have our agent look at that file. We can have our agent look at that file. We can have our agent look at that file. We can close this. So we need to cd apps for close this. So we need to cd apps for close this. So we need to cd apps for then we boot up haiku again /mcp. You then we boot up haiku again /mcp. You then we boot up haiku again /mcp. You can see nothing there. We can of course can see nothing there. We can of course can see nothing there. We can of course do slashcontext and here's the best part do slashcontext and here's the best part do slashcontext and here's the best part about skills. They have progressive about skills. They have progressive about skills. They have progressive disclosure. All our agent sees here is disclosure. All our agent sees here is disclosure. All our agent sees here is the definition of our skill which is the definition of our skill which is the definition of our skill which is just at the top. So this is all the just at the top. So this is all the just at the top. So this is all the context being consumed right now by our context being consumed right now by our context being consumed right now by our agent. So we can prompt something like agent. So we can prompt something like agent. So we can prompt something like this. Khi market search top LLM. And so this. Khi market search top LLM. And so this. Khi market search top LLM. And so this is going to kick off the skill. this is going to kick off the skill. this is going to kick off the skill. There it is. Cali markets. We're using There it is. Cali markets. We're using There it is. Cali markets. We're using skills and we're using the scripts skills and we're using the scripts skills and we're using the scripts inside of our skill. So if you look at inside of our skill. So if you look at inside of our skill. So if you look at the structure here, you can see same the structure here, you can see same the structure here, you can see same thing as our third approach, right, with thing as our third approach, right, with thing as our third approach, right, with the file system scripts. The only the file system scripts. The only the file system scripts. The only difference is that we've embedded, we've difference is that we've embedded, we've difference is that we've embedded, we've bundled all the scripts into the skills bundled all the scripts into the skills bundled all the scripts into the skills directory. Ky markets only has skill.md directory. Ky markets only has skill.md directory. Ky markets only has skill.md and then it has all the scripts it needs and then it has all the scripts it needs and then it has all the scripts it needs to run, right? So it's self-contained, to run, right? So it's self-contained, to run, right? So it's self-contained, it's isolated. This is a powerful it's isolated. This is a powerful it's isolated. This is a powerful approach to giving your agents specific approach to giving your agents specific approach to giving your agents specific tools without building an MCP server, tools without building an MCP server, tools without building an MCP server, right? These are MCP server right? These are MCP server right? These are MCP server alternatives. So, you can see a very alternatives. So, you can see a very alternatives. So, you can see a very similar structure here to our scripts. similar structure here to our scripts. similar structure here to our scripts. Calcy market instructions. There's that Calcy market instructions. There's that Calcy market instructions. There's that d--help. All of our scripts are d--help. All of our scripts are d--help. All of our scripts are self-contained and they're useful and self-contained and they're useful and self-contained and they're useful and informative for agents. If we just open informative for agents. If we just open informative for agents. If we just open up a random one here, you can see up a random one here, you can see up a random one here, you can see exactly the detail we're putting into exactly the detail we're putting into exactly the detail we're putting into this. The agent doesn't even need to this. The agent doesn't even need to this. The agent doesn't even need to look at the top of the file. But we have look at the top of the file. But we have look at the top of the file. But we have all this code self-contained in a single all this code self-contained in a single all this code self-contained in a single file script. And our skill is telling file script. And our skill is telling file script. And our skill is telling our agent when to use each. You can see our agent when to use each. You can see our agent when to use each. You can see here that it has searched, right? Ran a here that it has searched, right? Ran a here that it has searched, right? Ran a couple searches here. And now it has our couple searches here. And now it has our couple searches here. And now it has our top language model by the end of the top language model by the end of the top language model by the end of the year and we have early top ranking year and we have early top ranking year and we have early top ranking there. And right so we can go ahead and there. And right so we can go ahead and there. And right so we can go ahead and open this up. You can see Gemini is open this up. You can see Gemini is open this up. You can see Gemini is hugely biased here. There's a lot of hugely biased here. There's a lot of hugely biased here. There's a lot of information missing from this. Let's go information missing from this. Let's go information missing from this. Let's go ahead and open this bet up. Best AI end ahead and open this bet up. Best AI end ahead and open this bet up. Best AI end of year. Probably you're raising of year. Probably you're raising of year. Probably you're raising eyebrows already. We we know generally eyebrows already. We we know generally eyebrows already. We we know generally that Gemini is not the best model. So that Gemini is not the best model. So that Gemini is not the best model. So why is this true? Again, the devil's why is this true? Again, the devil's why is this true? Again, the devil's always in the details. It's looking at a always in the details. It's looking at a always in the details. It's looking at a single benchmark here. It's not just single benchmark here. It's not just single benchmark here. It's not just looking at this benchmark which tells a looking at this benchmark which tells a looking at this benchmark which tells a very different story. Cloud models are very different story. Cloud models are very different story. Cloud models are also tied for first place. But they have also tied for first place. But they have also tied for first place. But they have this remove style control on. You really this remove style control on. You really this remove style control on. You really have to understand the details in these have to understand the details in these have to understand the details in these betting markets to understand what it's betting markets to understand what it's betting markets to understand what it's really about. But you can see here really about. But you can see here really about. But you can see here there's a lot of specific settings that there's a lot of specific settings that there's a lot of specific settings that change the actual leaderboard. So change the actual leaderboard. So change the actual leaderboard. So anyway, you know, we can see the bets anyway, you know, we can see the bets anyway, you know, we can see the bets here and of course we can have our agent here and of course we can have our agent here and of course we can have our agent summarize and market sentiment, right? summarize and market sentiment, right? summarize and market sentiment, right? Same deal. And it's kind of already done Same deal. And it's kind of already done Same deal. And it's kind of already done that for us here, right? You can see that for us here, right? You can see that for us here, right? You can see here early top rankings. Not a lot of here early top rankings. Not a lot of here early top rankings. Not a lot of volume here though. Overwhelming volume here though. Overwhelming volume here though. Overwhelming consensus. Everyone's saying Gemini is consensus. Everyone's saying Gemini is consensus. Everyone's saying Gemini is going to dominate this leaderboard. We going to dominate this leaderboard. We going to dominate this leaderboard. We have a skill-based approach to accessing have a skill-based approach to accessing have a skill-based approach to accessing and running tools through scripts. Now, and running tools through scripts. Now, and running tools through scripts. Now, to be super clear here, your skill could to be super clear here, your skill could to be super clear here, your skill could also be a CLI. Your skill could call also be a CLI. Your skill could call also be a CLI. Your skill could call right to the API endpoints. So, instead right to the API endpoints. So, instead right to the API endpoints. So, instead of these skills here, we could have of these skills here, we could have of these skills here, we could have additional markdown files that just additional markdown files that just additional markdown files that just detail how to run these commands detail how to run these commands detail how to run these commands directly via bash and curl. If our directly via bash and curl. If our directly via bash and curl. If our endpoint doesn't require a lot of, you endpoint doesn't require a lot of, you endpoint doesn't require a lot of, you know, security or authentication, there know, security or authentication, there know, security or authentication, there are many approaches you can take when are many approaches you can take when are many approaches you can take when you're building out your custom skills you're building out your custom skills you're building out your custom skills and your file system scripts, right? You and your file system scripts, right? You and your file system scripts, right? You can do anything under the sun, right? can do anything under the sun, right? can do anything under the sun, right? But that leads us to the tradeoffs of But that leads us to the tradeoffs of But that leads us to the tradeoffs of each one of these approaches to giving each one of these approaches to giving each one of these approaches to giving your agents tools. Everything has trade-offs, right? It's Everything has trade-offs, right? It's Everything has trade-offs, right? It's not just that we want to go beyond MCP not just that we want to go beyond MCP not just that we want to go beyond MCP and that MCP is bad and you should never and that MCP is bad and you should never and that MCP is bad and you should never use MCP. That's almost never the case use MCP. That's almost never the case use MCP. That's almost never the case with engineering. Everything has with engineering. Everything has with engineering. Everything has trade-offs. There's no one winner takes trade-offs. There's no one winner takes trade-offs. There's no one winner takes all approach. There are options and all approach. There are options and all approach. There are options and tradeoffs. All right. So, for instance, tradeoffs. All right. So, for instance, tradeoffs. All right. So, for instance, who's invoking this? Is this agent who's invoking this? Is this agent who's invoking this? Is this agent invoked with MCP? Yes. CLI scripts? No. invoked with MCP? Yes. CLI scripts? No. invoked with MCP? Yes. CLI scripts? No. You need to run a slash command to set You need to run a slash command to set You need to run a slash command to set your agent up and then you can prompt your agent up and then you can prompt your agent up and then you can prompt it. Right. With skills, this just it. Right. With skills, this just it. Right. With skills, this just happens automatically. Context window happens automatically. Context window happens automatically. Context window consumption. Of course, this is the big consumption. Of course, this is the big consumption. Of course, this is the big winner here for CLI scripts and skills winner here for CLI scripts and skills winner here for CLI scripts and skills and MCP is the big loser. Especially if and MCP is the big loser. Especially if and MCP is the big loser. Especially if you're using external MCP servers. You you're using external MCP servers. You you're using external MCP servers. You have no control over this. have no control over this. have no control over this. Customizability, no for MCP server Customizability, no for MCP server Customizability, no for MCP server unless you own it. And then CLI scripts unless you own it. And then CLI scripts unless you own it. And then CLI scripts skills, of course, you have full control skills, of course, you have full control skills, of course, you have full control over this because you own the CLI, the over this because you own the CLI, the over this because you own the CLI, the scripts, and the skill. Portability, scripts, and the skill. Portability, scripts, and the skill. Portability, super low for MCP, higher for CLI, but super low for MCP, higher for CLI, but super low for MCP, higher for CLI, but you get even more portability out of you get even more portability out of you get even more portability out of your scripts and your skills. Why is your scripts and your skills. Why is your scripts and your skills. Why is that? It's because your skill is just a that? It's because your skill is just a that? It's because your skill is just a single directory. So, just copy this single directory. So, just copy this single directory. So, just copy this entire directory. Your scripts have even entire directory. Your scripts have even entire directory. Your scripts have even higher portability, right? Because it's higher portability, right? Because it's higher portability, right? Because it's just a single file. I can literally just just a single file. I can literally just just a single file. I can literally just copy all the content in this file, paste copy all the content in this file, paste copy all the content in this file, paste it to you, and you could run the code. it to you, and you could run the code. it to you, and you could run the code. Composability is interesting. All of Composability is interesting. All of Composability is interesting. All of these are composable. The kind of key these are composable. The kind of key these are composable. The kind of key thing to mention here is that you need thing to mention here is that you need thing to mention here is that you need to build out local prompts, sub aents, to build out local prompts, sub aents, to build out local prompts, sub aents, system prompts for CLI scripts, and system prompts for CLI scripts, and system prompts for CLI scripts, and skills that are always going to be kind skills that are always going to be kind skills that are always going to be kind of separated from the actual core code. of separated from the actual core code. of separated from the actual core code. And this is where MCP wins because with And this is where MCP wins because with And this is where MCP wins because with your MCP servers, there are a bunch of your MCP servers, there are a bunch of your MCP servers, there are a bunch of features that frankly engineers features that frankly engineers features that frankly engineers completely gloss over. Everyone thinks completely gloss over. Everyone thinks completely gloss over. Everyone thinks it's just for tools, which yes, tools it's just for tools, which yes, tools it's just for tools, which yes, tools are the most powerful piece of the MCP are the most powerful piece of the MCP are the most powerful piece of the MCP server. But if we hop down to the server. But if we hop down to the server. But if we hop down to the feature set here, you can see tools, feature set here, you can see tools, feature set here, you can see tools, resources, prompts, elicitation, resources, prompts, elicitation, resources, prompts, elicitation, completion, sampling. There's tons of completion, sampling. There's tons of completion, sampling. There's tons of features people miss in MCP server all features people miss in MCP server all features people miss in MCP server all the time, right? Simplicity super high. the time, right? Simplicity super high. the time, right? Simplicity super high. And then things get a little more And then things get a little more And then things get a little more complex here for CLI, scripts, and complex here for CLI, scripts, and complex here for CLI, scripts, and skills cuz you need to manage and roll skills cuz you need to manage and roll skills cuz you need to manage and roll everything out yourself. Obviously, the everything out yourself. Obviously, the everything out yourself. Obviously, the trade-off there is that you get more trade-off there is that you get more trade-off there is that you get more customizability and control. All right, customizability and control. All right, customizability and control. All right, engineering investment kind of following engineering investment kind of following engineering investment kind of following that exact same vein with simplicity. that exact same vein with simplicity. that exact same vein with simplicity. The great part about MCP servers is that The great part about MCP servers is that The great part about MCP servers is that if it's an external MCP server, you're if it's an external MCP server, you're if it's an external MCP server, you're just done. They have everything done for just done. They have everything done for just done. They have everything done for you. Just use the tools and get running you. Just use the tools and get running you. Just use the tools and get running right away. Right? This is why MCP is so right away. Right? This is why MCP is so right away. Right? This is why MCP is so great. It's standard. It's open- source. great. It's standard. It's open- source. great. It's standard. It's open- source. No one controls this. Right? Skills are No one controls this. Right? Skills are No one controls this. Right? Skills are very different. This is clawed ecosystem very different. This is clawed ecosystem very different. This is clawed ecosystem lockin. All right. Let's be super clear lockin. All right. Let's be super clear lockin. All right. Let's be super clear about that. It's great. Uh there's a lot about that. It's great. Uh there's a lot about that. It's great. Uh there's a lot you can do with it, but it is clawed you can do with it, but it is clawed you can do with it, but it is clawed ecosystem lockin. Okay. On the other ecosystem lockin. Okay. On the other ecosystem lockin. Okay. On the other hand, CLI and scripts, you're in full hand, CLI and scripts, you're in full hand, CLI and scripts, you're in full control of these. Okay? So, you can do control of these. Okay? So, you can do control of these. Okay? So, you can do whatever you want with these. You can whatever you want with these. You can whatever you want with these. You can share them however you like. And it's share them however you like. And it's share them however you like. And it's relatively simple to set this up and relatively simple to set this up and relatively simple to set this up and maintain this. So, these are the key maintain this. So, these are the key maintain this. So, these are the key differences you'll want to know. So, how differences you'll want to know. So, how differences you'll want to know. So, how am I using all of these different am I using all of these different am I using all of these different approaches? There are trade-offs across approaches? There are trade-offs across approaches? There are trade-offs across all these. Here's how I like to think all these. Here's how I like to think all these. Here's how I like to think about this, right? So, we have the tool about this, right? So, we have the tool about this, right? So, we have the tool belt, access layer, MCP, you can use belt, access layer, MCP, you can use belt, access layer, MCP, you can use scripts, CLI, and you can use skills. scripts, CLI, and you can use skills. scripts, CLI, and you can use skills. Here's my approach, and this is what I Here's my approach, and this is what I Here's my approach, and this is what I recommend to engineers as well. If recommend to engineers as well. If recommend to engineers as well. If you're using external tools, 80% of the you're using external tools, 80% of the you're using external tools, 80% of the time, just use MCP servers. Don't think time, just use MCP servers. Don't think time, just use MCP servers. Don't think about it. Don't waste your time trying about it. Don't waste your time trying about it. Don't waste your time trying to reinvent the wheel. It's just simple to reinvent the wheel. It's just simple to reinvent the wheel. It's just simple to get started and running with this. to get started and running with this. to get started and running with this. All right, but 50% of the time or 15% of All right, but 50% of the time or 15% of All right, but 50% of the time or 15% of the time, you should dial in to a CLI. the time, you should dial in to a CLI. the time, you should dial in to a CLI. And you do this if you need to modify, And you do this if you need to modify, And you do this if you need to modify, extend, specifically control like tools, extend, specifically control like tools, extend, specifically control like tools, and you can control here as well. When and you can control here as well. When and you can control here as well. When you're using external tools you're using external tools you're using external tools specifically, so you don't own these. specifically, so you don't own these. specifically, so you don't own these. The the problem here by jumping down to The the problem here by jumping down to The the problem here by jumping down to the CLI level is that you need to either the CLI level is that you need to either the CLI level is that you need to either interface into the MCP server via code interface into the MCP server via code interface into the MCP server via code or you need to build out the MCP server or you need to build out the MCP server or you need to build out the MCP server again as a CLI. So I don't do this often again as a CLI. So I don't do this often again as a CLI. So I don't do this often but when I do I go for CLI and then 5% but when I do I go for CLI and then 5% but when I do I go for CLI and then 5% remaining the time I go for scripts or remaining the time I go for scripts or remaining the time I go for scripts or skills and I do this only if I need skills and I do this only if I need skills and I do this only if I need context preservation because this is context preservation because this is context preservation because this is really the value ad of scripts or skills really the value ad of scripts or skills really the value ad of scripts or skills right it's the progressive disclosure right it's the progressive disclosure right it's the progressive disclosure right as anthropic mentions you get this right as anthropic mentions you get this right as anthropic mentions you get this progressive disclosure where you give progressive disclosure where you give progressive disclosure where you give your agent just a little bit of your agent just a little bit of your agent just a little bit of information because very rarely are you information because very rarely are you information because very rarely are you actually using every single tool every actually using every single tool every actually using every single tool every single time. Right? If we dial back up a single time. Right? If we dial back up a single time. Right? If we dial back up a couple directories here and we hop into couple directories here and we hop into couple directories here and we hop into our MCP server, right? MCP enter inter our MCP server, right? MCP enter inter our MCP server, right? MCP enter inter enter interview tools. There are 13 enter interview tools. There are 13 enter interview tools. There are 13 tools here. Are you really using all 13 tools here. Are you really using all 13 tools here. Are you really using all 13 tools every single time? The answer is tools every single time? The answer is tools every single time? The answer is no. Very clearly the answer is no. So no. Very clearly the answer is no. So no. Very clearly the answer is no. So you can use progressive disclosure with you can use progressive disclosure with you can use progressive disclosure with scripts or skills to just see and use scripts or skills to just see and use scripts or skills to just see and use the tools you need for that one the tools you need for that one the tools you need for that one instance, right? And you can save a ton instance, right? And you can save a ton instance, right? And you can save a ton of context with a single MCP server. No of context with a single MCP server. No of context with a single MCP server. No one really cares, right? even at the one really cares, right? even at the one really cares, right? even at the beginning, you know, chewing up beginning, you know, chewing up beginning, you know, chewing up slashcontext, you know, chewing up this slashcontext, you know, chewing up this slashcontext, you know, chewing up this 5%, it's fine. The problem is when you 5%, it's fine. The problem is when you 5%, it's fine. The problem is when you stack up two or three more larger ones stack up two or three more larger ones stack up two or three more larger ones and 20% of my context window is gone. and 20% of my context window is gone. and 20% of my context window is gone. That's a problem. And so when that That's a problem. And so when that That's a problem. And so when that becomes a problem, you can push to CLI becomes a problem, you can push to CLI becomes a problem, you can push to CLI and you can control tools and context. and you can control tools and context. and you can control tools and context. And if that's still a problem, you can And if that's still a problem, you can And if that's still a problem, you can go all the way to script or skills. Now go all the way to script or skills. Now go all the way to script or skills. Now for new tools, uh the approach is quite for new tools, uh the approach is quite for new tools, uh the approach is quite different and you can see this inside different and you can see this inside different and you can see this inside this codebase. So let me just draw this this codebase. So let me just draw this this codebase. So let me just draw this up first and then I'll show you exactly up first and then I'll show you exactly up first and then I'll show you exactly what I mean. So 80% of the time I just what I mean. So 80% of the time I just what I mean. So 80% of the time I just use CLI, right? I do CLI and then I give use CLI, right? I do CLI and then I give use CLI, right? I do CLI and then I give a prompt and it's use a prime prompt to a prompt and it's use a prime prompt to a prompt and it's use a prime prompt to set my agent up with how to use the set my agent up with how to use the set my agent up with how to use the tools, right? And this is as simple as tools, right? And this is as simple as tools, right? And this is as simple as this. This isn't complicated, right? I this. This isn't complicated, right? I this. This isn't complicated, right? I know some engineers always think things know some engineers always think things know some engineers always think things are overengineered and things are are overengineered and things are are overengineered and things are complicated. This is not hard at all. complicated. This is not hard at all. complicated. This is not hard at all. Okay, look at what we're doing here. Okay, look at what we're doing here. Okay, look at what we're doing here. It's a basic prompt. We have some a few It's a basic prompt. We have some a few It's a basic prompt. We have some a few instructions and then we have a dead instructions and then we have a dead instructions and then we have a dead simple three-step workflow. read just simple three-step workflow. read just simple three-step workflow. read just these files, run the report section, and these files, run the report section, and these files, run the report section, and then as you work, call the right tools. then as you work, call the right tools. then as you work, call the right tools. Step three here really isn't even Step three here really isn't even Step three here really isn't even necessary. All right? I'm just being necessary. All right? I'm just being necessary. All right? I'm just being super clear with my agent. And then I'm super clear with my agent. And then I'm super clear with my agent. And then I'm having it report it back to me to add having it report it back to me to add having it report it back to me to add more weight to the tokens. Okay? And so more weight to the tokens. Okay? And so more weight to the tokens. Okay? And so what's happening here, it's simple. I'm what's happening here, it's simple. I'm what's happening here, it's simple. I'm telling my agent how to use these tools telling my agent how to use these tools telling my agent how to use these tools by showing it the exact file. That's it. by showing it the exact file. That's it. by showing it the exact file. That's it. 80% of the time, I just use this. Now, 80% of the time, I just use this. Now, 80% of the time, I just use this. Now, the nice part is is that CLI works for the nice part is is that CLI works for the nice part is is that CLI works for you, your team, and your agents. The you, your team, and your agents. The you, your team, and your agents. The trifecta can be met here. You're not trifecta can be met here. You're not trifecta can be met here. You're not just building for you. You're not just building for you. You're not just building for you. You're not building for your team. You're building building for your team. You're building building for your team. You're building for you, your team, and your agents. And for you, your team, and your agents. And for you, your team, and your agents. And CLI gets you all three out of the box. I CLI gets you all three out of the box. I CLI gets you all three out of the box. I will push, you know, 10% of the time I will push, you know, 10% of the time I will push, you know, 10% of the time I will wrap MCP server. So why do I do will wrap MCP server. So why do I do will wrap MCP server. So why do I do this? I do this when I need multiple this? I do this when I need multiple this? I do this when I need multiple agents at scale and don't want to focus agents at scale and don't want to focus agents at scale and don't want to focus on the context. Usually the MCP server on the context. Usually the MCP server on the context. Usually the MCP server problem isn't a problem at all if you're problem isn't a problem at all if you're problem isn't a problem at all if you're using dedicated focused onepurpose using dedicated focused onepurpose using dedicated focused onepurpose agents. All right, this is something agents. All right, this is something agents. All right, this is something that we talk about in tactical agent that we talk about in tactical agent that we talk about in tactical agent coding. You can sidestep every single coding. You can sidestep every single coding. You can sidestep every single context engineering problem by just context engineering problem by just context engineering problem by just focusing your agents on one problem and focusing your agents on one problem and focusing your agents on one problem and then you delete them when they're done. then you delete them when they're done. then you delete them when they're done. All right, but sometimes you do need to All right, but sometimes you do need to All right, but sometimes you do need to stack MCP servers. you need to have stack MCP servers. you need to have stack MCP servers. you need to have larger tool sets and when you need that larger tool sets and when you need that larger tool sets and when you need that I go from CLI to MCP server and I do it I go from CLI to MCP server and I do it I go from CLI to MCP server and I do it in a very specific way. I build CLI in a very specific way. I build CLI in a very specific way. I build CLI first so that it is very simple to then first so that it is very simple to then first so that it is very simple to then wrap an MCP server. If you go into the wrap an MCP server. If you go into the wrap an MCP server. If you go into the one MCP server server py you'll notice one MCP server server py you'll notice one MCP server server py you'll notice something really interesting. All of my something really interesting. All of my something really interesting. All of my methods here all of the tools you can methods here all of the tools you can methods here all of the tools you can just search this decorator right 13 just search this decorator right 13 just search this decorator right 13 tools. All this does guess what it does tools. All this does guess what it does tools. All this does guess what it does it calls right into the CLI. So I get it calls right into the CLI. So I get it calls right into the CLI. So I get interoperability with MCP because I have interoperability with MCP because I have interoperability with MCP because I have a CLI server first. So I always build a CLI server first. So I always build a CLI server first. So I always build CLI servers instead of MCP servers when CLI servers instead of MCP servers when CLI servers instead of MCP servers when I'm building new tools. And then 10% of I'm building new tools. And then 10% of I'm building new tools. And then 10% of the time if I need agents at scale and I the time if I need agents at scale and I the time if I need agents at scale and I just want to pass it a MCP.json.star just want to pass it a MCP.json.star just want to pass it a MCP.json.star file, I will then wrap it in an MCP file, I will then wrap it in an MCP file, I will then wrap it in an MCP server. Right? And then the last 10% of server. Right? And then the last 10% of server. Right? And then the last 10% of the time I'll use a script or skill the time I'll use a script or skill the time I'll use a script or skill again for the same reason if I need again for the same reason if I need again for the same reason if I need context preservation. All right? So if context preservation. All right? So if context preservation. All right? So if you really need to protect the context you really need to protect the context you really need to protect the context and you have lots of MCP servers, then and you have lots of MCP servers, then and you have lots of MCP servers, then you go all the way to scripts or skills. you go all the way to scripts or skills. you go all the way to scripts or skills. But most of the time, I recommend for But most of the time, I recommend for But most of the time, I recommend for your new skills, you just roll out a your new skills, you just roll out a your new skills, you just roll out a CLI. Why? Because it works for you, CLI. Why? Because it works for you, CLI. Why? Because it works for you, works for your team, and your agents works for your team, and your agents works for your team, and your agents understand it as well. And there's an understand it as well. And there's an understand it as well. And there's an even simpler version of, you know, all even simpler version of, you know, all even simpler version of, you know, all these prompts. A CLI prompt. You can get these prompts. A CLI prompt. You can get these prompts. A CLI prompt. You can get rid of every other section here. If rid of every other section here. If rid of every other section here. If you're really just being, you know, you're really just being, you know, you're really just being, you know, super lazy and you're rolling out that super lazy and you're rolling out that super lazy and you're rolling out that first version of your CLI prompt, you first version of your CLI prompt, you first version of your CLI prompt, you can just do this five line prompt now. can just do this five line prompt now. can just do this five line prompt now. Just read these files, summarize these Just read these files, summarize these Just read these files, summarize these tools, right? And then bam, you're off tools, right? And then bam, you're off tools, right? And then bam, you're off to the races. No MCP server, no anything to the races. No MCP server, no anything to the races. No MCP server, no anything else. You just actually build against else. You just actually build against else. You just actually build against the use case you're focused on. So this the use case you're focused on. So this the use case you're focused on. So this is what I recommend most of the time. is what I recommend most of the time. is what I recommend most of the time. And then if you need to, again, you go And then if you need to, again, you go And then if you need to, again, you go to scripts or you go to skills. Now, I to scripts or you go to skills. Now, I to scripts or you go to skills. Now, I think this order changes. If you're deep think this order changes. If you're deep think this order changes. If you're deep in the cloud code ecosystem, then you in the cloud code ecosystem, then you in the cloud code ecosystem, then you can of course go right for skills. But I can of course go right for skills. But I can of course go right for skills. But I like to keep a balanced approach. As like to keep a balanced approach. As like to keep a balanced approach. As much as I love the cloud code ecosystem much as I love the cloud code ecosystem much as I love the cloud code ecosystem and the clawed ecosystem, I am always and the clawed ecosystem, I am always and the clawed ecosystem, I am always aware of lock in and skills is a claude aware of lock in and skills is a claude aware of lock in and skills is a claude specific lockin mechanism. That's fine. specific lockin mechanism. That's fine. specific lockin mechanism. That's fine. Again, these are just trade-offs that we Again, these are just trade-offs that we Again, these are just trade-offs that we need to manage. All right. So, this is need to manage. All right. So, this is need to manage. All right. So, this is how I think about alternatives to MCP how I think about alternatives to MCP how I think about alternatives to MCP server. This codebase is going to be server. This codebase is going to be server. This codebase is going to be available to you. Link in the available to you. Link in the available to you. Link in the description. Everything's detailed out description. Everything's detailed out description. Everything's detailed out here so you can understand each of these here so you can understand each of these here so you can understand each of these approaches. You'll be able to get approaches. You'll be able to get approaches. You'll be able to get quickly up and running with this. Read quickly up and running with this. Read quickly up and running with this. Read through this code before you start it. through this code before you start it. through this code before you start it. There are a couple caveats here in this There are a couple caveats here in this There are a couple caveats here in this codebase. I highly recommend you check codebase. I highly recommend you check codebase. I highly recommend you check out these three blogs from Vitalic, from out these three blogs from Vitalic, from out these three blogs from Vitalic, from Mario, and from the Anthropic team. Mario, and from the Anthropic team. Mario, and from the Anthropic team. There's a lot of rich information in There's a lot of rich information in There's a lot of rich information in each one of these. You know where to each one of these. You know where to each one of these. You know where to find me every single Monday. Stay find me every single Monday. Stay find me every single Monday. Stay focused and keep building.